Why Do I Start a Blog

Karobben
11 Feb 2020



The most directed reason that made me start my blog is that I find writing Html is very fun, and you can free from the framework of Word, do whatever you want. (The truth is Microsoft Office is not working on Linux, and WPS crashes all the time. So, I tried to write an Html report and my boss liked this report ^_^) 

Another reason is I want to practice my English. You know, there are not too many opportunities for Chinese students to practice their English skills. And so, running an English blog means, I need to post some English comments and papers. It's a very good chance to practice the Html skills and English at the same time. It was just like one stone, two birds! So, please don't get mad at my mistakes and I will try my best for each sentence. And feel free to correct my mistakes. I'll appreciate every comment and they are very valuable to me. 

When & How Am I Started with Html

I can't remember exactly when, but I think, it could be 2018, when I know this thing from an online bioinformatical course, and I tried to write a "hollow World" page. Soon, I think it could be fun if I can write my notes with Html. Because words are easily deleted from Word files without any notice. You know, back then, I am still using Office Word to recode my code for ggplot, or codes of some software like Trinitiy, blast+... Yeah, it is true. None of my friends were studying CS back at that time. So, I don't know what Atom is, or what VS is. Except for the Note pad, Word is the only text editor I know. But, soon, I found it was so hard for a beginner to write a full Html page. And at the same time, I learned how to use vim. So, I began using vim to record or my notes and scripts. It is the first time I have missed my chance to master this powerful tool. 

After that, I saw Html files from time to time. As you know, some packages like plotly, network 3d and worldcloud, some software like fastQC and fastq, they can output Html graphics or reports. I even tried to write an Html feel with a python script. But I still feel very struggle by a year later when I am writing an Html report. It is very hard for laymen to do things like that alone. I have made some progress in that report. But due to heavy academic work and nobody guided me. So, this report discouraged me a lot. Since that, I think Html is very hard and doesn't want to write it again. This is the second time I lost my chance to learn it. 

A few weeks before, I tried to write a report with WPS in Deepin, a Linux distribution which has a very beautiful desktop environment, but as worse GUI app environment as all Linux systems. Before it crushed my patience and passion, I still believe WPS is the best choice in Linux. Thanks to it beating my face, again and again, I decided to download a website template and feat my report in it. But I still don't know how to write an Html report. Luckily, I got lots of help from experienced friends in a QQ group. They answered so many naive questions of mine, how to insert an Html graphics, for instance, which has given me a great moral to continue dealing with Html. And under their suggestion, I tried to use the VS code, which helped me a lot, too. To be honest, without this group of friends' help, I can never have the courage to learn this new knowledge and maybe given it up again. 

What Do I Learn from It

About a month later, which is now, I re-opened this github IO for pracitcing the skill of writing Html and English. I am still a baby and an amateur in this area. I still have no idea how to start with a blank paper. So, I can start a page by only adapting website templates with an open license. But I am still enjoying writing my blog, recording my growth and learning. And I'd like to share this experience with people. I saw many of my friends who claim to learn R, to learn python, or to learn English. Even though, I tried to offer my help, like, sharing books, sharing my codes, experience, and free online courses. But almost none of them made progress. They were given up too quickly to enjoy any progress. So, here, I'd like to tell those people who are feeling blind and helpless when they are learning something new that doesn't give up easily even if you're feeling lonely and helpless. Please, try to make the most use of the resources you have, asking for help from your friends, if not, then Dor. Google, finding an on-line chat group, reading tutorials and blogs, and finally, taking notes and recording your progress and/or achievements. You can do better than you expected. Take me as an example. If I didn't give up learning Html two years ago, I can build a much better page than this, I can have hundreds of posts by now, I can have better English composing skills now. So, whatever we want to do or plan to learn, it's extremely important to keep your patience and passion to pursue it. We can harvest the fruits only if we pay with insistent caring.
